Policy JICC: Student Conduct on School Buses

Status: ADOPTED
Original Adopted Date: 05/09/2024
Last Reviewed Date: 05/09/2024

JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY

Students using school buses and other District transportation are under the jurisdiction of the School from the time they board the bus until they exit the bus. Additionally, Board policy JICDD applies to "out-of-school" student conduct, including, but not limited to, conduct at or near school bus stops.

The Superintendent or his/her designee will develop rules and regulations for conduct on buses.

CONSEQUENCES FOR MISCONDUCT

Failure to abide by the school bus conduct rules, disorderly conduct or persistent refusal to submit to the authority of the driver may result in a student to be denied or suspended from the privilege of transportation in accordance with the RSA 189:9-a, and applicable District rules and procedures. Additionally, conduct on District transportation is subject to additional interventions, supports or consequences as provided in the Parent-Student Handbook.

TRANSPORTATION SUSPENSION PROCEDURES

If a student is to lose the privilege of riding the bus ("transportation suspension"), advance warning will be given, except for misconduct that threatens or the health, safety or welfare of other students, staff or any other person.

Parents/guardians of students who have had bus privileges suspended have a right to appeal the suspension within 10 calendar days to the person who issued the original suspension.

Transportation suspensions exceeding 20 days must be approved by the Board.

Transportation suspensions shall not begin until the next school day following the day written notification of suspension is sent to the pupil's parent/guardian.

The Superintendent shall include such appeal and review procedures in the Parent-Student Handbook referenced in the preceding paragraph.

Transportation suspensions may extend to all District transportation according to the Parent-Student Handbook.

DRIVER AND MONITOR AUTHORITY

Students transported in a school bus shall be under the authority of the District and under control of the bus driver. The driver of the bus, along with the bus monitor, if applicable, is responsible for the orderly conduct of the students transported. Each driver and monitor has the support of the Board in maintaining good conduct on the bus.

LEGAL REFERENCE
RSA 189:9-a (New Hampshire Revised Statutes)
Board Policy JICDD
